# openWEMI meeting May 3, 2023
###### tags: `openwemi`

Hackmd link: https://hackmd.io/YyhT2bxFTqeo1iqJ0OigFw

Join Zoom Meeting: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89101555665?pwd=QW83cDFpQ1pETjB6YUNQOTFiQmZjUT09

## Times:
* San Francisco (USA – California)	 9:00:00	PDT	UTC-7 hours
* New York (USA – New York)	 12:00:00	EDT	UTC-4 hours
* London (United Kingdom – England)	17:00:00	GMT	UTC
* Berlin (Germany – Berlin)	18:00:00	CET	UTC+1 hour
* Corresponding UTC (GMT)	 16:00:00

[Check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230426T1600) in your time zone

## Last week's notes:
* https://hackmd.io/4XuVrW4lQ7uQHz1hLBYw3g

## Participants
* Karen Ross

## Agenda

* relatedEndeavor https://github.com/dcmi/openwemi/issues/26
    * add relationships between same entities?
    * add other relationships between different entities?
* journals, volumes, issues #30 https://github.com/dcmi/openwemi/issues/30
    * an example of whole/part
*  Some non-text examples #31 https://github.com/dcmi/openwemi/issues/31

## Minutes
Ross updated ttl file to include entity/entity relationships

Question: what is an item/item relationship? Byte-for-byte copy? Word doc converted to PDF? Would this make sense for datasets? (McCusker) What about a digitized book in the Open Library? Libraries would call this a manifestation, but open library has a number of different versions - text, PDF, epub, etc. In MARC, the manifestation = ISBN, so these copies would be copies of ... manifestations?

Main conclusion: we know how the library world views these, but we should not be limited to how the library world does things. In fact, we should be trying to go beyond the library definitions and practices.

Work should not be required. And library systems do not reference entities outside of themselves, so this causes lock-in to individual systems.

Looking at journal example (issue #30), shows parts (part of) and things with parts will probably be very common. 

Library interpretation is that paper copy and digital copy are separate works. These could be seen as either separate expressions or separate manifestation.

BIBFRAME has "hub" which is a subclass of work. We would probably call that a work/work relationship? 

ACTION: KC will try to associate openWEMI to the BF hub diagram, and to the diagram that Tina provided. Show different ways that the same info can be modeled.

Ross: article to journal fits into our "relatedX".

kc: but with partOf - do you need a different property for part relationships of different entities? There could be a:
* expression partOf Work?
* manifestation1 partOf manifestation2?

Ross: how do you divide article/issue info. Where do the page numbers fit - issue? article? And the print copy has page numbers but the digital copy has a URL.

kc: using "in:" in citations.

If you connect the PDF to the hard copy description you can have both the URL as well as the page numbers in the hard copy. There is value in connecting the manifestations.

We note that outside communities relate better to FRBR than LRM, even though library world has moved beyond FRBR.

Examples: how about theater? There's the script, the translation of the script, modifications to the script, the scene design, and each performance. (Ross will try to model this.) Also, ad libbing! 

What about events? FRBRoo has that. KC will take a look (e.g. FRBRoo 2.1.2 diagram) and see if she can make sense of it in an openWEMI way.
